Narrator:
So I'm here in Ableton Live,
one of the most popular DAWs
in the world,
to show you a little bit more
about delay and how it works.
I have a reference sound
on track 1 of my DAW here,
which you can hear.
[guitar melody with reverb]
And I can add a delay effect
to that track.
And there's
a little yellow dot here
which sets the delay time.
See right now,
it's set to 0.3 seconds,
so we'll hear
the original sound,
and then 0.3 seconds later,
we'll hear a copy of that sound.
[guitar melody
with reverb and delay]
Now of course I can
change that delay time.
If I want the delayed version
to happen quicker,
I can reduce that delay time,
say to 0.15 seconds.
[guitar melody
with reverb and quick delay]
And that gives me
just one delayed copy,
but sometimes I might want
many delayed copies
to have this recurring
echo happening.
And so if I want that,
I can increase the feedback.
And by setting
the delay feedback,
I can determine how these copies
continue over time.
So we see here, our first copy
is still happening
after 0.15 seconds
at about 50 percent
of the original volume.
And then after
another 0.15 seconds,
I get another copy
that's at 50 percent
of the volume of the last one.
And then after
another 0.15 seconds,
I get another copy
that is half as loud
as the previous one,
and on and on
until the sound dies out.
So every 0.15 seconds,
I get another delayed copy
that's quieter
than the previous one,
until they die out.
[guitar melody
with reverb and quick delay]
And if I increase that feedback,
obviously, I'll hear a lot more
of those copies,
and they'll go on for longer.
But they're still at that
same 0.15 second interval.
[guitar melody
with reverb and loud delay]
Now sometimes I may want
to sync up the delay time
with the tempo of my song,
so that each of these delays
happens exactly on a beat.
If I want to do that,
I need to do a little bit
of simple math to figure out
what my delay time should be.
So I know the tempo
of my song.
In this case,
it's 120 beats per minute.
And then I also know
how many seconds
there are in a minute.
There's 60 seconds in a minute.
So to figure out
how long my beat lasts,
I simply say
that that equals to—
is equal to the number
of seconds in a minute
divided by the number
of beats per minute.
So that equals 60
divided by 120,
which equals 0.5 seconds.
And that's the number
I would put into my delay.
A lot of music software,
including EarSketch,
though, asks for the time
in milliseconds
rather than in seconds.
So I need to do
one more conversion
to go from seconds
to milliseconds.
So the beat in milliseconds
would equal my beat
in seconds times 1000
because there are 1000
milliseconds in one second.
So the math here
would be 0.5 times 1000,
which would
equal 500 milliseconds.
And if we come back
to Ableton Live,
now here it's asking
for it in seconds,
but if I put this in
at 0.5 seconds
then every beat I will get
one copy of my delayed sound.
[guitar melody with reverb
and a half-second delay]
And you can hear how all
of those notes are lining up.